= ValidatableAssociations

ValidatableAssociations is an add-on to Jay Fields
{Validatable}[http://validatable.rubyforge.org] library. This add-on lets you
specify associations to other validatable classes and allows you to set up a
decent validatable structure.

== Install

Install as a Rails plugin:

  $ script/plugin install git://github.com/rubiii/validatable_associations.git

Or install the gem:

  $ gem install validatable_associations

Please notice that the validatable_associations gem is in the
{gemcutter}[http://gemcutter.org] repository. Please follow the instructions
provided on their website to set up your rubygems installation.

== Associations

A very simple example of a "User has one Gorilla" association:

  class User
    include Validatable
    include ValidatableAssociations

    has_one :gorilla

    attr_accessor :username, :password

    validates_presence_of :username
    validates_length_of :password, :minimum => 6
  end

  class Gorilla
    include Validatable
    include ValidatableAssociations

    attr_accessor :name, :size

    validates_presence_of :name
    validates_numericality_of :size
  end

==== Currently implemented associations:

The first version of this add-on only includes has_one associations.
I intend to only add more associations if I need them myself or if anyone convinces
me that he really needs support for another type of association.

== Validation

Calling the valid? method (provided by the Validatable library) on an instance of
one of your validatable Classes will also run the validations off all associations
of the Class.

== Mass-assignment

You can use mass-assignment to assign multiple values to your Class at once.
This also includes every one of its associations.

  user = User.new :username => "apricot", :password => "secret",
    :gorilla => { :name => "Joe", :size => 4411 }
